Extraction techniques merely copy the information deemed most important by the system to the summary (for example, key clauses, sentences or paragraphs), while abstraction involves paraphrasing sections of the source document .
Some techniques and algorithms which naturally model summarization problems are TextRank and PageRank, Submodular set function , Determinantal point process , maximal marginal relevance (MMR) etc.
"The Army Corps of Engineers, rushing to meet President Bush's promise to protect New Orleans by the start of the 2006 hurricane season, installed defective flood-control pumps last year despite warnings from its own expert that the equipment would fail during a storm, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press".
Although the system exhibited good results, the researchers wanted to explore the effectiveness of a maximum entropy (ME) classifier for the meeting summarization task, as ME is known to be robust against feature dependencies.
Automatic summaries present information extracted from multiple sources algorithmically, without any editorial touch or subjective human intervention, thus making it completely unbiased.
LexRank deals with diversity as a heuristic final stage using CSIS, and other systems have used similar methods, such as Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR), [8] in trying to eliminate redundancy in information retrieval results.
There is a general purpose graph-based ranking algorithm like Page/Lex/TextRank that handles both "centrality" and "diversity" in a unified mathematical framework based on absorbing Markov chain random walks.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 545-552. doi : 10.1007/978-3-642-10268-4_64 ^ http://arxiv.org/pdf/cs/0212020.pdf ^ Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau, 2004: TextRank: Bringing Order into Texts , Department of Computer Science University of North Texas "Archived copy" (PDF) .
^ Sebastian Tschiatschek, Rishabh Iyer, Hoachen Wei and Jeff Bilmes, Learning Mixtures of Submodular Functions for Image Collection Summarization, In Advances of Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), Montreal, Canada, December - 2014.
, Published in Proceeding RIAO'10 Adaptivity, Personalization and Fusion of Heterogeneous Information, CID Paris, France Xiaojin, Zhu, Andrew Goldberg, Jurgen Van Gael, and David Andrzejewski (2007).
