Supervised learning approaches[ edit ] Beginning with the work of Turney, [2] many researchers have approached keyphrase extraction as a supervised machine learning problem.
Some classifiers make a binary classification for a test example, while others assign a probability of being a keyphrase.
Virtually any supervised learning algorithm could be used, such as decision trees, Naive Bayes , and rule induction.
In the case of Turney's GenEx algorithm, a genetic algorithm is used to learn parameters for a domain-specific keyphrase extraction algorithm.
Furthermore, training on a specific domain tends to customize the extraction process to that domain, so the resulting classifier is not necessarily portable, as some of Turney's results demonstrate.
Once the graph is constructed, it is used to form a stochastic matrix, combined with a damping factor (as in the "random surfer model"), and the ranking over vertices is obtained by finding the eigenvector corresponding to eigenvalue 1 (i.e., the stationary distribution of the random walk on the graph).
However, to keep the graph small, the authors decide to rank individual unigrams in a first step, and then include a second step that merges highly ranked adjacent unigrams to form multi-word phrases.
"A Class of Submodular Functions for Document Summarization", The 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (ACL-HLT) , 2011 ^ Sebastian Tschiatschek, Rishabh Iyer, Hoachen Wei and Jeff Bilmes, Learning Mixtures of Submodular Functions for Image Collection Summarization, In Advances of Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), Montreal, Canada, December - 2014.
^ Ramakrishna Bairi, Rishabh Iyer, Ganesh Ramakrishnan and Jeff Bilmes, Summarizing Multi-Document Topic Hierarchies using Submodular Mixtures, To Appear In the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), Beijing, China, July - 2015 ^ Kai Wei, Rishabh Iyer, and Jeff Bilmes, Submodularity in Data Subset Selection and Active Learning, To Appear In Proc.
International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Lille, France, June - 2015 ^ "overview for autotldr" .
